MapleBot
==========

MapleBot is a simple XMPP bot built with nodejs.  Its built using a
number of configurable tasks.  Each task binds a set of commands to the
bot.  When the bot encounters a command it knows.  The connected
function is run.  MapleBot makes a great bot to use on company jabber
networks, and can easily be trained to do things like send reminders or
get the weather.

Dependencies
------------

You can install all of Maplebot's dependencies using `npm`.

	npm install .

This will install all the dependencies.  You can make sure things worked
by running the tests:

	npm test

Configuration
-------------

Included in the source is a sample configuration file,  fill out the
configuration values to get MapleBot running. Some of the most important
configuration options are:

- `username` The login name MapleBot should use when joining the jabber
  service.
- `password` The password to use.
- `room` The room you want the bot to join.
- `nick` The nickname the bot should use.
- `tasks` The tasks the bot should bind.

Creating Tasks
--------------

Tasks in MapleBot are where you build the commands and features you want
MapleBot to have.  Each task binds a number of commands to the bot.
When the bot receives a message in the group chat that starts with the
command value, it dispatches the remainder of the message to the bound
function.  There is a built in task base to help facilitate building
tasks.  Each task is expected to have a `bindCommands` method that
accepts an object that commands are inserted into.  See the provided
QueueManager or Weather tasks for how to build a simple task.

Configuring tasks
----------------

When defining tasks in your configuration file you can also pass in any
additional configuration data for those tasks.

	// in config.json
	module.exports = {
		tasks: {
			'CodeReview': {
				module: './code-review',
				autoPairTime: '10:30:00'
			}
		}
	};

When using an object for a task definition, you must include the
`module` key.  It has to point at the file containing the task you want
to use.  All other keys + values will be passed to the tasks's
constructor as the second parameter.  The first is the `bot` the task
is bound to.



Creating responses
------------------

Responses can be created in a few different formats, each with different
features:

- *Plain text* These are directly output to the group chat.  
- *Objects* Simple object responses allow you to respond with both a
  subject and a body, and other properties.  Useful for bot tasks that need to set the topic.
- *Promises* There is a simple built-in promise object in the task module.  Promises are ideal
  for tasks that require additional asynchronous work to be done.  By resolving the promise, 
  the response will be delivered.

A response using a promise would look like:

	var task = require('./lib/task');

	function doSomething() {
		var promise = new task.Promise();
		doSomethingAsync(promise);
		return promise;
	}

An object response could look like:

	var response = {
		body: 'I am message text',
		subject: 'I will be set as the group chat topic in most clients.'
	};

You can use object responses with both synchronous responses, as well as
promises.  When using object responses you can direct the message to
specific rooms for multi-room bots, by setting the `room` property.  The
room property lets you reply directly to people from a groupchat room.  You
can also change set the `type` key to specify whether or not you want to
send a 'direct' or 'groupchat' type of message.

Built in Tasks
--------------

There are a few built-in tasks, that do a few things I need on a day to
day basis:

- QueueManager - manages queues of things to do.
- Weather - Query google's weather api to get local forecasts.
- Help - Display help text about all the other tasks.  Called with
  `!help`
- CodeReview - Helps do random pair ups for daily code reviews.

Running MapleBot
----------------

After setting up the configuration file, you can start the bot using

	node bot.js

Calling commands
----------------

You call bot commands by sending the group chat a message starting with
one of the bound command keywords.  For example, if you were using the
`Weather` task, you could send:

	!weather toronto,ontario

to the group chat.  This will cause MapleBot to query the google weather
api and reply with the result.  Whenever a task command is called, it
will be supplied one argument, a request.  This request contains a
number of properties that you can use:

- `room` The room the message came from.
- `from` The person who sent the message.
- `body` The message body text.
- `type` Whether the the message was a direct or groupchat message.

The requests can also be treated as a string, and appended into other
text.  If a response doesn't contain a room the request's room will be
used.



